In this lecture, I'm gonna show you linting in action.
So let's start by writing some invalid code like this. Print
space with no parenthesis and then hello
world. Earlier I told you that print is a built in function,
and whenever you want to use or call a function you should always use
parenthesis. Now to be more precise this is actually valid python 2
code, but because we're using python 3 here, this is invalid
code from python 3's point of view. So now when I
save the changes you can see this red underline here.
Let's hover our mouse over this underline. We
can see this tool tip it's coming from pylint and here's the error message.
missing parenthesis in call to print. Did you mean
print with parenthesis, so this is the benefit of linting. As
you're writing code you can see potential problems in your code, you don't have to
wait to run your program to see these errors. So now,
if you put parenthesis here, and
save the changes, you can see that red underline is gone. Let's
look at another error. Let's type 2+
and then save the changes. Earlier we ran this code
in python interpreters interactive shell. There we got
a syntax or grammar error. So if you hover
your mouse here one more time, you can see pylint is telling us
this is invalid syntax or invalid grammar, it's like
an incomplete sentence. So this is linting in action. Now let me show
you a couple useful shortcuts here. On the top,
look at the view menu, here we have this problems menu,
look at the short cut, on Mac it's shift command and m
on windows it's shift control m.
So as you're working with VSCode try to memorize these shortcuts because they
really help you write code faster. Now let's take a look
at this problems panel. So this problems panel
lists all the issues in your code in one place.
So if you have an application with multiple files this is really useful because
some of those files may not currently be open, so this linter,
pylint, will analyze all your files and if it finds any issues
it will list them here in the problems panel. Now you can also put this
on the right side of the screen, so let's put it here,
so as you write code these problems will occur here.
Now let's fix this issue, so I'm going to add 3 here, save the
changes and you can see the problem disappear. And one last
thing before we finish this lecture. Once again on the top, let's go
to the view menu, the first item is command palette.
This is a very important feature in vs code, once again look at
the short cut that is shift command and p on Mac or shift
control p on windows. With this command palette
you can execute various commands in VSCode. If you type
lint here, you can see all commands related to linting.
As you can see all these commands are prefixed with python
because these commands come with the python extension that
we installed earlier. So these are additional features available to us
in vs code. The first command is select linter.
In this list you can see various linters available
for pylint so as you're reading tutorials or talking to other people you will
hear about linters such as flake8,
mypy, pep8 and so on. Different developers prefer different linters,
I personally prefer pylint, that is the most popular one,
and that is the default linter set in the python extension
of vs code. If you're adventurous, you can try using other
linters on your own, the difference between these linters is in how
they find and report errors. Some error messages are more
meaningful or more friendly, the others are more ambiguous.
So that's all about linting. In the next lecture we'll talk about formatting
code.